---
title: DMVE Preview
date: Thu, 22 Feb 2024 18:32:51 +0000
---
How do I start a career in video editing?Ever considered if you might have a future as a video editor? Is it professionally and financially rewarding? Register for our sharing session to find out how you can unlock your potential. Understand what it takes to become a video editor!Online Sharing SessionThursday 22 February 20247:30pm to 9:30pmThe SpeakerNoraswan Mohamed has more than 15 years of experience in the creative and media industry. He is highly proficient in current motion graphic design skills and practices and has an excellent portfolio of up-to-date commercial design work.He was the Co-Founder/Managing Director of Muse Pte Ltd, which offers across-the-board services to major and leading players in the creative industry, including TV stations, advertising agencies, and government agencies. One of Muse's significant projects is a partnership with Media Development Authority (now known as Infocomm Media Development Authority) to produce a 2D animation series 'Geng Anam', broadcasted on Mediacorp's Suria Channel, educating children and youth on the history of Singapore.During his 13 years as the Operation & Production Manager and Head of Motion Graphic at Muse Pte Ltd, Noraswan was responsible for managing a team of graphic designers, editors, producers, and sound engineers. He was also instrumental in managing the clients' needs, including technical and creative resources, and delivering complete corporate-quality post productions.
Diploma in Media (Post-Production) - Video Editor (Classroom and Synchronous E-Learning)Crafted and delivered by industry practitioners, this comprehensive course is designed to aid aspiring individuals in becoming proficient Video Editors in the Film & Broadcast industry. Through an interactive curriculum spanning seven key modules, participants will master the fundamental and essential skills and knowledge crucial for the role of a Video Editor.This 12-month part-time programme will commence on 28 March 2024.Singapore Citizens, Permanent Residents and Long-Term Visit Pass Plus (LTVP+) Holders can enjoy up to 95% SkillsFuture (SSG) Funding.