---
title: Private Education Act
date: Tue, 30 Dec 2025 06:43:19 +0000
---
SkillsFuture Singapore (SSG) is responsible for overseeing private education under the authority of the Private Education Act. SSG regulates the sector, offers student services, promotes consumer education, and supports capability development initiatives to enhance the quality of private education in Singapore.In accordance with the Private Education Act, all Private Education Institutions (PEIs) must adhere to the regulations outlined in the Act to maintain their operational status.Following are the requirements which Singapore Media Academy Pte Ltd (SMA) has put in place:PEI-Student ContractSSG, in aiming to enhance the confidence of students and their parents in the quality of education in Singapore, has stipulated that all PEIs must sign a PEI-Student Contract with students. The contract sets out the terms and conditions governing the relationship between the student and PEI. SMA will honour all terms and conditions in the contract and in all communication materials.Download: Sample copy of the Standard PEI-Student Contract Version 4.0 from SSGCooling-Off PeriodThere will be a cooling-off period of seven (7) working days after signing the PEI-Student Contract.  Students have the right to cancel the contract within the seven (7) working days and be refunded the highest percentage of the fees already paid if the students submit written notice of withdrawal to SMA within the cooling off period (refer to Clause 2.3 of PEI-Student Contract). After the cooling-off period, SMA’s refund policy will apply.Fee Protection Scheme Group Insurance (FPS-G)SMA adopts a compulsory Fee Protection Scheme Group Insurance (FPS-G) to protect the paid fees of both local and international students taking courses at SMA except for short courses and courses with waivers granted by SSG. The FPS-G serves to protect the student’s fees in the event that the PEI is unable to continue operations due to insolvency and/or regulatory closure. In addition, the FPS protects the student if the PEI fails to pay penalties or return fees to the student arising from judgments made against it by the Singapore courts.SMA has appointed Liberty Insurance as the FPS-G Insurance provider to insure all students’ fees. In case of events, as stated above, students can claim their unutilised portion of paid fees from Liberty Insurance. More details of the FPS can also be found in the FPS Instruction Manual, available at https://www.skillsfuture.gov.sg/pei.Master Certificate of Insurance: Fee Protection Scheme (FPS) Group InsuranceMedical InsuranceSMA has in place a group medical insurance scheme for students. This medical insurance scheme will have a minimum coverage as follows:An annual coverage limit of S$20,000 per student, covers up to B2 ward in government and restructured hospitals and provides for twenty-four (24) hours coverage in Singapore and overseas (if student is involved in SMA-related activities) throughout the course duration. Local students with their own insurance coverage need to show proof of insurance in order to opt out of this coverage.Master Certificate of Insurance: Student Medical InsuranceGroup Hospital & Surgical Claim Form (Student Medical Insurance)Group Student Medical Insurance: Product Summary and Frequently Asked Questions