---
title: Programme Info
date: Mon, 06 Oct 2025 03:47:52 +0000
---
The Mentorship Support Grant (MSG), supported by SkillsFuture Singapore (SSG), helps enterprises access expert project mentorship through consultancy and implementation-led training. Tapping on the expertise, knowledge and skills of Mediacorp as well as our network of trainers and partners, we provide a “Consult, Train & Implement” model of training, mentorship and consultancy to identify and close any gaps in skills and knowledge as well as widen sources of business and revenue for your company. Consult – We will provide consultation to understand growth areas and training needs. Train – We will provide training conducted by practicing media industry professionals. Implement – We will be hands on in the practical implementation of skills and training. This scheme is funded by SSG for all eligible companies*.SMEs: Up to 90% funding, capped at $30,000 per projectNon-SMEs: Up to 70% funding, capped at $30,000 per projectEach company may apply for up to 3 projects*Subject to approval. Areas of FocusMedia & CommunicationCrisis CommunicationsMedia Spokesperson TrainingBrand StorytellingPitching, Presentation & ElocutionEmerging TechnologiesArtificial Intelligence (AI) & Generative AI (AIGC)Digital & Social Media MarketingDigital MarketingSocial Media MarketingSocial Media Crisis ManagementContent CreationBrand Content MarketingPitching Like ProducersPossible Areas of Growth Needs
            Are you looking to grow capabilities of your company in digital and social media marketing or emerging technologies like GenAI? 
          

You are a media production company specialising in short films, advertisement and brand content looking to upskill existing team members and to grow your business in areas like digital and social media marketing. Looking to set up an in-house content creation team with the insights and skills in community management, in addition to better data and interpretation on our social media and digital platforms?   You are in the financial services industry looking to develop more branded content for social media. Your sales and marketing team members are unsure what can and cannot be said on social media, if they should use mobile or DLSR in portrait or landscape… what strategies to deploy using paid or unpaid campaigns. Gain more insights and skills in community management, setting up an in-house content team and have better data and interpretation on our social media and digital platforms?            Is your company ready to manage a crisis? 
          

Your company is in sustainable resource production. Your company leaders often field media interviews, lend opinions in fireside chats and are tasked to tackle tough and controversial issues related to eco-sustainability. As a comms professional, you need your leaders to have a basic understanding of the media landscape, how newsrooms work, develop spokesperson skills, prepare motherhood statements and even handle crisis management. Would you like to prepare your company to be able to manage a crisis?
Why Choose SMA as Your MSG Partner?As a CET Centre for the Media Industry under Mediacorp, Singapore Media Academy (SMA) brings:Industry Expertise – Access to experienced practitioners and mentors from the media and creative sectors.Customised Solutions – Tailored mentorship projects aligned with your organisation’s growth and expansion needs.Practical Impact – Focus on hands-on implementation and measurable outcomes.Strong Networks – Leverage SMA’s connections with industry experts and institutions.Enquire Now