---
title: Programme Info
date: Wed, 31 Dec 2025 02:23:57 +0000
---
This course is also available under the SkillsFuture Career Transition Programme (SCTP)
PART-TIME STUDY | COURSE FEE SUBSIDYCrafted and delivered by industry practitioners, this comprehensive course is designed to aid aspiring individuals in becoming proficient Video Editors in the Film & Broadcast industry. Through an interactive curriculum spanning seven key modules, participants will master the fundamental and essential skills and knowledge crucial for the role of a Video Editor.Career Prospects
Video Editor, Assistant Director, Assistant Editor, Production Assistant, Assistant Producer, Producer
Course Modules
1.
Video Editing (Level 3)
Video Editing (Level 3) (Synchronous E-Learning) 
This module covers the principles of video theory, pacing, and rhythm that are appropriate for various themes. Participants will learn about video enhancement software, the features, functions, and limitations of video editing software and equipment. They will also learn the techniques to execute technical edits and relevant editing standards and guidelines. At the end of the module, participants will be able to execute video edits to organise video footage in a sequence that matches the narratives in the script.
Learning Outcomes:

Analyse requirements in each scene to identify types of edits and effects needed
Import footage from multiple source files and arrange them in a logical sequence for editing
Create editing logs to outline details of edits required for selected footage
Make editing decisions to determine the appropriate shots, pacing and the transitions needed to convey the story and emotions in each scene
Collaborate with production teams to resolve problems encountered in the editing process
Inspect edited video footages to ensure alignment to technical requirements of production
Clean up noise and imperfections in edited video footages to optimise the video quality2. Production Operations (Video Editor) (Classroom and Synchronous E-Learning) 
This module covers the roles and contributions of key departments during filming, interdependencies, and reporting structures of the production team. Participants will learn about the vision and motivations of the creative team, production schedules, technical processes, and the types of approvals and permissions required from authorities. At the end of the module, participants will be able to coordinate the execution of production operations to ensure adherence to budget and timelines.
Learning Outcomes:

Interpret the creative and technical requirements based on the production schedules and discuss with key
technical and creative teams
Compile the daily production requirements for distribution to the cast and crew to provide them with details of the
following day’s shoot
Conduct checks prior to the daily production operation to ensure availability of production resources including
software, equipment, crew and cast
Propose adjustments to daily schedules
Anticipate potential delays and budget overruns and escalate these to relevant departments and superiors
Identify ways to minimise delays and budget overruns
Coordinate multiple teams and individuals to maintain continuity of the production throughout the event
Check the documentation and paperwork required including call sheets, production reports, script, crew lists,
location lease agreements, insurances and visas
Review the daily progress report and highlight issues to various departments3.
Video Editing (Level 4)
Video Editing (Level 4) (Synchronous E-Learning) 
This module covers the industry quality standards and the parameters to assess video quality. Participants will learn about the types of quality issues and the solutions to rectify quality issues, as well as technologies that improve the efficiency and quality of video edits.
Learning Outcomes:

Review scripts to conceptualise the types of edits required to achieve creative vision of production
Develop editing standards and guidelines in accordance to legal requirements and broadcasting standards
Develop work plans to outline the processes and timelines needed for the post production processes
Review edited footage to propose changes that will enhance the story and emotions in each scene
Assess edited footage against technical parameters to ensure alignment to requirements
Develop remedial actions to resolve issues that do not comply with industry standards
Facilitate the adoption of new technologies to improve the efficiency and quality of visual outputs4.
Colour Grading
Colour Grading (Synchronous E-Learning)
This module explains the principles of colour and lighting, the fundamentals of cinematography, and the techniques of colour grading. Participants will learn about formats generated by types of cameras, features, and functions in colour correction software and the limitations associated with each type of colour correction software.
Learning Outcomes:

Analyse requirements in each scene to identify the colours needed to depict the mood and creative visuals in each
scene
Adjust colours of images in source files to convey intended emotions in each scene
Make colour edits to details to enhance the realism of visual imagery
Evaluate colour graded footage to ensure colour continuity in final output
Check final output files to ensure media formats are aligned with specifications in creative briefs
Adjust video levels to comply with technical specifications5. Project Management (Classroom and Synchronous E-Learning) 
This module covers the elements of project modules, the requirements of a project plan, and the application of appropriate project management methodologies and tools. Participants will also learn about the project risks and project stakeholders’ identification. At the end of the module, participants will be able to implement project plans for small projects or project modules.
Learning Outcomes:

Facilitate execution of project modules
Implement project plans based on the understanding of project objectives and project scope
Utilise appropriate methods and tools to track and drive progress of projects against set plans and timelines
Identify risks to the success of projects or modules and manage the risks
Collaborate and communicate effectively with relevant internal and external stakeholders related to the projects
Deploy resources to different parts of the projects for efficient and effective completion
Track project deliverables against project schedules
Monitor costs, timescales and resources used and take basic corrective actions in case of misalignment6.
Media File Formats Conformation (Video Editor)
Media File Formats Conformation (Video Editor) (Synchronous E-Learning) 
This module covers the technical formats and requirements for various distribution channels. It explains the features
and functions in post-production software and the limitations associated with various types of post-production software. At the end of this module, participants will be able to create high resolution versions of picture-locked footage that reflect the edits and creative decisions made by the production teams.
Learning Outcomes:

Analyse distribution requirements to determine appropriate formats for online editing and mastering
Coordinate with various production teams to collate required files for online editing
Perform edits to footage to create a conformed version
Synchronise the final audio mix and visual effects with picture-locked footage to enhance the overall visual impact
Adjust visual parameters and frame rates to conform with timelines
Check final footage to ensure edits are accurately captured in conformed versions
Update footage to reflect additional editing decisions from creative leadership teams
Organise media files in required file structures and naming conventions for delivery
Convert media files to required formats to meet distribution requirements7.
Immersive Video Editing
Immersive Video Editing (Synchronous E-Learning)
This module covers editing immersive video content to achieve the creative vision and intended immersive experience
for the audience. Participants will learn the features and functions of editing software, principles and techniques of non-linear editing, colour, and lighting. The module will also cover the applications of rotoscoping, manipulation of visual parameters to create immersive effect, and stitching techniques.
Learning Outcomes:

Analyse immersive video content to identify distortions and aberrations
Perform edits on immersive video content to achieve the creative vision and desired immersive experiences
Execute transitions to retain the seamlessness and coherence of immersive video content
Stitch the immersive video content to remove distortions and aberrations
Synchronise pictures and sounds using time codes and frame rates
Update immersive video content to reflect additional editing decisions from creative leadership teamsMode of Training
In-person and Online
For Online Classes: Trainees need to have laptops or desktops that support the editing software. Please refer to these minimum system requirements for the software installation -

Adobe Creative Cloud: https://helpx.adobe.com/sg/creative-cloud/help/creative-cloud-desktop-app-system-requirements.html
DaVinci Resolve: https://www.blackmagicdesign.com/support/readme/4bce814edaf646fc9c829190b1ee09a4

Note: 
SMA training laptops are pre-installed with the necessary software and plugins, based on versions commonly used in the industry. These are selected in consultation with our trainers, who are practicing media professionals. Please note that it may not always be the latest version.
Students who choose to use your own device or update your software need to ensure it remains compatible with the tools and functions covered in the course. Training and assessments will be conducted based on the software version used in class.
Assessment

All modules will conclude with a compulsory assessment component.
Assessments may include role plays, quizzes, assignments, projects, and written examinations.
Participants need to achieve at least 75% attendance for each module before they are allowed to sit for the assessment.

Certification
Completion of all the required modules will qualify candidates for the Diploma in Media (Post-Production) - Video Editor, issued by Singapore Media Academy.
Participants will also receive a Statement of Attainment issued by SkillsFuture Singapore (SSG) for each module completed.
Trainers
 Foo Piao Xu (Fu Biaoxu)
Piao Xu has more than 18 years of experience in television and film after graduating from the National University of Singapore. She has enjoyed considerable success working across the whole spectrum of television production, from conceptualising new ideas to content creation and distribution. She has worked with numerous directors, writers, producers, above-the-line and below-the-line production resource staff, and clients in the media industry.
She is the Executive Producer (in charge of production) of 'Fighting Spiders'. This English drama series won the Special Award for Best Mini-Series at the Seoul Drama International Drama Awards 2009. She is also the Producer of 80s Rewind, the situational comedy that won the Silver World Medal (situational comedy) in the New York Festivals International TV Programming and Promotion Awards 2009.
Apart from live-action productions, Piao Xu has worked on International Co-productions for animation shows. She also served as Post-producer on reality shows like The Apartment. She helmed the role of Producer Director at Mankind Creative Pte Ltd, which specialised in corporate and industry videos.
 Noraswan Mohamed
Noraswan has more than 15 years of experience in the creative and media industry. He is highly proficient in current motion graphic design skills and practices and has an excellent portfolio of up-to-date commercial design work.
He was the Co-Founder/Managing Director of Muse Pte Ltd, which offers across-the-board services to major and leading players in the creative industry, including TV stations, advertising agencies, and government agencies. One of Muse's significant projects is a partnership with Media Development Authority (now known as Infocomm Media Development Authority) to produce a 2D animation series 'Geng Anam', broadcasted on Mediacorp's Suria Channel, educating children and youth on the history of Singapore.
During his 13 years as the Operation & Production Manager and Head of Motion Graphic at Muse Pte Ltd, Noraswan was responsible for managing a team of graphic designers, editors, producers, and sound engineers. He was also instrumental in managing the clients' needs, including technical and creative resources, and delivering complete corporate-quality post/productions.
 David Suen (Sng Choon Hui)
David is a working director in the local media scene for over 20 years. Being a freelancer, he has garnered extensive experience in many broadcast genres, helping numerous production houses direct their TV programmes locally and internationally with over 50 dramas and documentaries, 15 commercials, 66 corporate & event videos, and counting.
He is also a MOE certified ACTA trainer and an adjunct lecturer, having taught in over 50 secondary and tertiary education schools.
 Aw Yong Liang (Ric)
Ric has been making films and television shows since 2005. He has directed 12 short films, and his first feature film premiered at Singapore International Film Festival. His first short film, ‘Buy Me Love’, was awarded the Best Short Film Award, Best Script Award for ‘Villain’, and Best Performance for ‘Silent Girls’, and he travelled to different international film festivals.
His accolades as a producer include ‘superDONG’ which was selected for Cannes Directors’ Fortnight  ‘7 Letters: Pineapple Town’ which was selected for the Busan International Film Festival, and ‘Benjamin’s Last Day at Katong Swimming Complex’ which won the Best Film Award and George Lucas Award at Short Shorts Tokyo Film Festival. He also worked on ‘Wonderland’ as a film consultant in 2024.
In addition to cinema, his work extends to video art installation. In 2011, Ric presented his video installation, ‘Man of the Forest’ at Yokohama Triennale, Japan.
His branded content short film ‘Piah’ was commended by Senior Minister Lee Hsien Loong as a “heart-warming short film” and “a story of loss, hope and reconciliation”. The film was viewed by more than 2 million viewers on social media.
He is currently creating documentaries on social media that have strong human-interest stories about the arts, culture, and heritage of Singapore.
As an executive producer, he has run several television series from documentary, drama, infotainment, and reality to 360 Virtual Reality productions.
List of Trainers
Course Duration and Schedule
There are 2 intakes per year: January and July
Part-Time Programme (12 months)

Next Intake: 12 January 2026 (Calendar)

Time

Weekdays:  Twice a week from 7:00pm to 10:00pm
Saturdays: Occasionally from 9:00am to 6:00pm

Venue

In-Person Classes: 1 Stars Avenue, Mediacorp Campus, Singapore 138507
Online Classes: Participants will be provided with the log-in links

Fees for Diploma in Media (Post-Production) - Video Editor (Classroom and Synchronous E-Learning)
Course fee to be paid by instalments. Details will be provided in the Student Contract.
Full Course Fee, including 9% GST: S$19,592.75
Course Fee with SkillsFuture Funding:
SkillsFuture Funding (Baseline)1 for Singapore Citizens, Permanent Residents and Long-Term Visit Pass Plus (LTVP+) Holders

Full Course Fee
S$17,975.00SkillsFuture Funding (Baseline)
(S$12,582.50)Nett Course Fee
S$5,392.509% GST
S$485.34Nett Course Fee, including GST
S$5,877.84

SkillsFuture Mid-Career Enhanced Subsidy1 for Singapore Citizens aged 40 years old and Above

Full Course Fee
S$17,975.00SkillsFuture Mid-Career Enhanced Subsidy
(S$16,177.50)Nett Course Fee
S$1,797.509% GST2
S$485.34Nett Course Fee, including GST
S$2,282.84

SkillsFuture Enhanced Training Support for SMEs1 for Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SMEs)

Full Course Fee
S$17,975.00SkillsFuture Enhanced Training Support for SMEs
(S$16,177.50)Nett Course Fee
S$1,797.509% GST2
S$485.34Nett Course Fee, including GST
S$2,282.84

1SkillsFuture Funding: Terms and Conditions
2As per SSG Policy, GST payable is calculated based on prevailing GST rate after the baseline funding subsidy of 70%.Miscellaneous Fees:
Local Participants
        (Part-Time Programme)
Local Participants
        (Full-Time Programme)
International ParticipantsApplication Fee
S$54.50
S$218.00
S$218.00Administrative Fees3
-
S$981.00
S$981.00Course Materials Fee
-
S$272.50
S$272.50Student Development Fee
-
S$436.00
S$436.00Total Fee, including 9% GST
S$54.50
S$1,907.50
S$1,907.50

3Administrative Fees include Annual Medical Insurance Premium, Annual NLB Membership Fee, ICA Student Pass Application Fee, Lab Fee and SMA Student Access Card.
Fees for (SCTP) Diploma in Media (Post-Production) - Video Editor (Classroom and Synchronous E-Learning)
Course fee to be paid by instalments. Details will be provided in the Student Contract.
Full Course Fee, including 9% GST: S$19,592.75
Course Fee with SkillsFuture Funding:
SkillsFuture Funding (Baseline)1 for Singapore Citizens and Permanent Residents

Full Course Fee
S$17,975.00SkillsFuture Funding (Baseline)
(S$12,582.50)Nett Course Fee
S$5,392.509% GST
S$485.34Nett Course Fee, including GST
S$5,877.84

SkillsFuture Mid-Career Enhanced Subsidy1 for Singapore Citizens aged 40 years old and Above

Full Course Fee
S$17,975.00SkillsFuture Mid-Career Enhanced Subsidy
(S$16,177.50)Nett Course Fee
S$1,797.509% GST2
S$485.34Nett Course Fee, including GST
S$2,282.84

SkillsFuture Additional Course Fee Funding Support1 for Singapore Citizens who meet one of following eligibility criteria:
- Long-term unemployed individuals (unemployed for six months or more); or
- Individuals in need of financial assistance – ComCare, Short-to-Medium Term Assistance (SMTA) recipients or Workfare Income Supplement (WIS) recipients; or
- Persons with DisabilitiesFull Course Fee
S$17,975.00SkillsFuture Additional Course Fee Funding Support
(S$17,076.25)Nett Course Fee
S$898.759% GST2
S$485.34Nett Course Fee, including GST
S$1,384.09

1SkillsFuture Career Transition Programme (SCTP): Terms and Conditions
2As per SSG Policy, GST payable is calculated based on prevailing GST rate after the baseline funding subsidy of 70%.Miscellaneous Fees:
Local Participants
        (Part-Time Programme)
Local Participants
        (Full-Time Programme)Application Fee
S$54.50
S$218.00Administrative Fees3
-
S$981.00Course Materials Fee
-
S$272.50Student Development Fee
-
S$436.00Total Fee, including 9% GST
S$54.50
S$1,907.50

3Administrative Fees include Annual Medical Insurance Premium, Annual NLB Membership Fee, ICA Student Pass Application Fee, Lab Fee and SMA Student Access Card.
Modes of Payment

All application payments, course fees, and miscellaneous fees should be made only to Singapore Media Academy Private Limited.
A payment receipt can be provided to prospective students on request. Please allow 3 (three) working days after we have verified your payment. Please note that the late payment penalty of S$54.50 will be imposed for payment received after the stipulated due date as stated in the Student Contract.
We accept the following methods of payment. Click here for the details: https://diploma.mediaacademy.sg/faqInternet Banking / Telegraphic Transfer
PayNow (UEN)
Credit Card Payment
SkillsFuture Credit
Post-Secondary Education Account (PSEA)

Minimum Entry Requirements

Minimum Age: 18

Academic Requirement: Obtain Pass Grade in GCE O-Level subjects, including at least C6 for English (or IELTS overall band score 5.5 and above or equivalent) and 2 other subjects or equivalent

Applicants who do not meet the minimum requirements may still apply and will be considered based on:

Age 30 years or above, with 8 years of work experience; and/or
Oral interview or evaluation test by Singapore Media Academy to determine suitability for the courseApplicants may be called for an interview at the discretion of Singapore Media Academy

Other Information:Terms & ConditionsPrivate Education Act (PEI-Student Contract, Cooling-Off Period, Fee Protection Scheme, Medical Insurance)List of Miscellaneous FeesApplication Procedure (For Local Students)Application Procedure (For International Students)Grievance PolicyCourse Withdrawal Policy and ProcedureCourse Transfer Policy and ProcedureCourse Deferment PolicyRefund Policy and Procedure