---
title: SDIPP Preview
date: Sat, 24 Feb 2024 05:10:46 +0000
---
Is the role of the producer over-rated or under-rated?Without a doubt, producers play an essential role as the forerunner to film, television and online content. But is their role overstated or understated? In-Person Sharing SessionFriday 23 February 20247:30pm to 9:30pm1 Stars Avenue, Mediacorp Campus, Singapore 138507The SpeakerFoo Piao Xu has more than 18 years of experience in television and film after graduating from the National University of Singapore. She has enjoyed considerable success working across the whole spectrum of television production, from conceptualising new ideas to content creation and distribution. She has worked with numerous directors, writers, producers, above-the-line and below-the-line production resource staff, and clients in the media industry.She is the Executive Producer (in charge of production) of 'Fighting Spiders'. This English drama series won the Special Award for Best Mini-Series at the Seoul Drama International Drama Awards 2009. She is also the Producer of 80s Rewind, the situational comedy that won the Silver World Medal (situational comedy) in the New York Festivals International TV Programming and Promotion Awards 2009.Apart from live-action productions, Piao Xu has worked on International Co-productions for animation shows. She also served as Post-producer on reality shows like The Apartment. She helmed the role of Producer Director at Mankind Creative Pte Ltd, which specialised in corporate and industry videos.
WSQ Specialist Diploma in Media (Content Production and Management) - Producer (Synchronous E-Learning)Crafted by media professionals, this programme refines participants into specialised Producers capable of independently overseeing projects. Modules cover performer selection, budgeting, pre-production planning, crew management, and project pitching, fostering a comprehensive understanding of the production process.This 6-month part-time programme will commence on 5 April 2024.Singapore Citizens, Permanent Residents and Long-Term Visit Pass Plus (LTVP+) Holders can enjoy up to 95% SkillsFuture (SSG) Funding.