---
title: SMMOCC Preview
date: Tue, 20 Feb 2024 14:03:49 +0000
---
The world needs more storytellers…People listen and connect to stories. With digitalisation and all things ‘data-driven’, data and insights are making a presence in content. But Data, without context or a connection is useless. Storytelling with Data connects and informs your audience, making it interesting, entertaining, relevant, even personal.In-Person Sharing SessionTuesday 20 February 20247:30pm to 9:30pm1 Stars Avenue, Mediacorp Campus, Singapore 138507The SpeakerAzhar Bin Azib is the Founder and Principal Consultant at rawonionDecisions.A Data Architect by training, a Data-driven Marketer, and Transformation Specialist by practice, Azhar’s over 25-year corporate career has allowed him to lead and participate in significant capability building and organisational transformation projects at regional and global levels, at companies like IBM and Microsoft. His last corporate role was the Director of Marketing Communications for the Asia Pacific at Microsoft. The common denominator across all these assignments is data, and the adoption of data-enabled capabilities drives better business decisions and performance.Today, his work spans all areas that come into contact with data - from Enterprise Information Architecture and Governance to Data-Driven Customer Strategy and compliance with Data Protection Legislation – basically helping businesses use data to transform into smart, data-driven organisations.Azhar is a Certified Information Privacy Manager and Technologist. He sits on the Executive Committee and is also the Honorary Data Protection Officer for the Data-Driven Marketing Association of Singapore. He is also a certified Governance, Risk Management, and Compliance Professional.
Specialist Diploma in Social Media Marketing and Online Content Creation (Synchronous E-Learning)Designed to empower marketers with cutting-edge skills, this programme provides a comprehensive roadmap to navigate the Social Media landscape. Through a carefully crafted curriculum, participants will master the art of crafting persuasive copy for interactive media, creating captivating online content spanning diverse formats and social media platforms, and strategically leveraging social media platforms to promote products and services effectively.This 12-month part-time programme will commence on 29 April 2024.Singapore Citizens, Permanent Residents and Long-Term Visit Pass Plus (LTVP+) Holders can enjoy up to 95% SkillsFuture (SSG) Funding.